---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Unquie design pattern 
date: 2018-11-29
labels:
  - Learning
  - Software Engineering
  - Career
---

## I have a plan?
We may not realize it, but everything has a design pattern of its own. Before any object is constructed, there is always some kind of plan or blueprint before construction. And that exactly what design pattern is, a general blueprint for all common problem. Of course, there are multiple of ways to solve a problem, but pattern is similar to a habits more than just solution. It is the most common way people think and act. Just like how we all wake up and fall asleep later on. The same principles apply to coding. As we all have a specific way to approach a problem, and a unique way to solve it. Some draw the algorithm before starting to code, while some just solve as it type. There is all kind of design patterns but there is no best one. There is only the one you like and work the best.  


## Daily working pattern
Coding can be tough sometime; especially when you try your hard and still could not solve the problem. Compare to structure and creational design patterns, behavioral design pattern is far the most important design pattern. It is not about the code, but how you decide to code. Some like to work under the clock while some like to take it time. There are no right or wrong answer, but good or bad. It is true that software engineer have to work under the clock all the time, but we should always enjoy it and make the most of it even under stress. Efficiently use of state change, both you and the code could further the progress. If works become slow, then it times to take a break and change the state. Out of 8 hours of work, there are only about 3 hours of effective work done while the over 5 hours are communication and designing. If one simply continue to work all 8 hours, most of the work produce are full of error and not useable. Resting it the most important design pattern for life.      
